README.md, before:

# Claims.App

## How to get the code and run it
In a command promt, run the following

	> git clone https://github.com/jfsvak/Claims.App.git

__To run unit tests__

	> dotnet test Claims.App/src/Claims.App.sln

__To run the app__

	> dotnet run Claims.App/src/Claims.App.sln --project Claims.App/src/Claims.Web

__To test the api's__

Use [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/) (or similar) to POST a block of text to `http://localhost:5000/api/claims/email`. 
For some basic test submissions, import `tests/Claims.App.postman_collection.json` into Postman and run as a collection.


## About the Solution
### Assumptions
I assume for now that the only agreed upon contract for text submission is one that follows the example, with the additional constraints mentioned under the section Failure Conditions.

This gives me the following assumptions:
1. The only mandatory xml element is `<total>`
2. The other xml elements are optional and can appear at the most one time. *Multiple xml elements are discussed below in section __Points for Further Design and Development__*

### Design
I have chosen to have two projects (tests are found in `tests/Claims.App.Tests`)

- src/Claims.Web
- src/Claims.Business

#### Claims.Web project
Contains a basic ASP.NET Core 2.2 web app, where the Web API code to handle communication to and from clients is placed. 
A simple `TextPlainInputFormatter.cs` has been added to handle content type 'text/plain' in the submission.
`ClaimsController.cs` contains the exposed api methods.

Apis are made available on:

	POST	/api/claims/email	// accepts a block of text as the body (email) and parses it into a Claim entity (see below)
	GET	 /api/claims		  // gets all the claims. Currently just returns dummy Claim list as persistence is not implemented.

#### Claims.Business project
Contains implementation of:
- Domain model (business entities) - `Claims.Business.Model.*`
- business rule validation of mandatory fields and default values for missing fields - `Claims.Business.Service.*`
- extracting data from xml - `Claims.Business.Util.*`
- parsing Culture sensitive data (e.g. dates and amounts) - `Claims.Business.Util.*`

### Points for Further Design and Development
#### Business Feature
- Have multiple Expenses under one Claim
- Submitting expenses separately with a Claim ID and have all the totals accumulated under one Expense
- Make Event an independent entity and thus be able to submit events independently from expenses/claims

#### Technical Features
- __Separate Model layer for Web from Business Layer in order not to expose Business Domain Model to clients__
- Put texts in language bundles so I18N messaging can be achieved
- Persist successfully extracted Claim entities somewhere, e.g. DB

# Notes/Limitations:
- Had to change the date as it was an invalid date. 27. april 2017 is a thursday.
- Parsing of amounts is not strict with regards to number group size. E.g. 1,23.45 will be parsed to an allowed value of 123.45. This is default behaviour for number parsing, so if strict amount formats needs to be followed, validation of this needs to be implemented separately

Commit message:

Move note about invalid day in date to Assumptions section

README.md, after:

# Claims.App

## How to get the code and run it
In a command promt, run the following

	> git clone https://github.com/jfsvak/Claims.App.git

__To run unit tests__

	> dotnet test Claims.App/src/Claims.App.sln

__To run the app__

	> dotnet run Claims.App/src/Claims.App.sln --project Claims.App/src/Claims.Web

__To test the api's__

Use [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/) (or similar) to POST a block of text to `http://localhost:5000/api/claims/email`. 
For some basic test submissions, import `tests/Claims.App.postman_collection.json` into Postman and run as a collection.


## About the Solution
### Assumptions
I assume for now that the only agreed upon contract for text submission is one that follows the example, with the additional constraints mentioned under the section Failure Conditions.

This gives me the following assumptions:
1. The only mandatory xml element is `<total>`
2. The other xml elements are optional and can appear at the most one time. *Multiple xml elements are discussed below in section __Points for Further Design and Development__*
3. The week day of the date given in the example is not a valid date: 27. april 2017 is a __Thursday__, not a __Tuesday__. So in my sunshine scenarios, I have changed it to Thursday 25 april 2017.


### Design
I have chosen to have two projects (tests are found in `tests/Claims.App.Tests`)

- src/Claims.Web
- src/Claims.Business

#### Claims.Web project
Contains a basic ASP.NET Core 2.2 web app, where the Web API code to handle communication to and from clients is placed. 
A simple `TextPlainInputFormatter.cs` has been added to handle content type 'text/plain' in the submission.
`ClaimsController.cs` contains the exposed api methods.

Apis are made available on:

	POST	/api/claims/email	// accepts a block of text as the body (email) and parses it into a Claim entity (see below)
	GET	 /api/claims		  // gets all the claims. Currently just returns dummy Claim list as persistence is not implemented.

#### Claims.Business project
Contains implementation of:
- Domain model (business entities) - `Claims.Business.Model.*`
- business rule validation of mandatory fields and default values for missing fields - `Claims.Business.Service.*`
- extracting data from xml - `Claims.Business.Util.*`
- parsing Culture sensitive data (e.g. dates and amounts) - `Claims.Business.Util.*`

### Points for Further Design and Development
#### Business Feature
- Have multiple Expenses under one Claim
- Submitting expenses separately with a Claim ID and have all the totals accumulated under one Expense
- Make Event an independent entity and thus be able to submit events independently from expenses/claims

#### Technical Features
- __Separate Model layer for Web from Business Layer in order not to expose Business Domain Model to clients__
- Put texts in language bundles so I18N messaging can be achieved
- Persist successfully extracted Claim entities somewhere, e.g. DB

# Notes/Limitations:
- Parsing of amounts is not strict with regards to number group size. E.g. 1,23.45 will be parsed to an allowed value of 123.45. This is default behaviour for number parsing, so if strict amount formats needs to be followed, validation of this needs to be implemented separately
